What is the Super Learner?

The super learner is a general loss-based learning method designed to find the optimal
combination of a set of learners. The super learner framework is built on the theory
of cross-validation and allows for a general class of algorithms to be considered for
the ensemble. The oracle results for the cross-validation selector are extended to the
super learner. Due to the established oracle results for the cross-validation selector,
the super learner is proven to represent an asymptotically optimal framework for
learning. We discuss the super learner algorithm and demonstrate the method on a
series of data analysis problems. The super learner framework is extended to cover
censored data by applying an appropriate observed data loss function. The final
chapter presents an R package for implementing the super learner based on a general
library of learners.

Chapter 1

Introduction

One of the most commonly used statistical procedures is estimator selection.
Given a set of observations and a collection of candidate learners, an estimator selection procedure traditionally selects a single estimator from the collection based on a
criterion (e.g. minimizing the negative log likelihood). Numerous methods exist for
the candidate learners, an overview of various statistical methods for the candidate
learners can be found in [44].
The super learner is based on the general theory of loss-based estimation [87].
Therefore, the framework applies to a variety of estimation problems including density
estimation and prediction. As long as the parameter of interest can be defined as the
minimizer of the expected loss function, the super learner framework will apply.
Before introducing the super learner, a short description of cross-validation is
presented. The second chapter contains the proposed super learner algorithm and
the oracle results. Chapter 3 contains a collection of practical demonstrations of
the super learner on both simulated and real data sets. Chapter 4 is an extended
example of the super learner for the specific case of predicting treatment effects.
Chapter 5 outlines how the super learner framework can be extended to censored
data. Chapter 6 contains a detailed description of the software implementation of
the super learner framework. Finally, Chapter 7 contains the conclusion and future
work.
